hi this is fresh talker Warren Buffett
once challenged Bill Gates to a special
dice game like the following the dice
each had six phases that were equally
likely to show up but the numbers were
different than a standard dice one of
the dice had all threes on all of its
six phases another one had zero on two
of its phases and four on four of its
phases a third dice had an equal number
of ones and fives and a fourth dice had
two on Forrest faces and six on two of
its faces so here's how the game works
you and I are each going to pick a
different one of these dice we're not
going to pick the same ones we're going
to pick different dice we're then going
to roll against each other and the
person who rolls a higher number gets a
point we then repeat that many many
times so that the person who rolls the
highest number of points over many rolls
is going to win the game I'm going to
graciously offer you to let you pick
your die first which one do you want
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution so let's analyze this game
suppose you pick the dice that has all
threes what I'm going to do is I'm going
to pick the dice which has zero on two
of its faces and four on four of its
faces what's going to happen when we
roll against each other well if I roll a
zero which happens to out of the six
times I'm going to lose to you because
you're always going to roll a three
however in the four out of the six times
that I roll a four I'm actually going to
beat you so I'm going to beat you
two-thirds of the time so if you pick a
dice which has all threes you're going
to lose to me two-thirds of the time so
now suppose you know this strategy and
you say well why don't I pick the dice
that has two zeros and four fours well
if you're going to pick that dice that
I'm going to go ahead and pick the dice
which has three ones and three 5s it's a
little harder to analyze what happens
when we roll these two dice against each
other but it's not too complicated now
I'm going to win if I roll a five
because anytime I rolled a five it's
higher than you rolling a zero or a four
so in three out of the six cases I'm
going to roll a five and I'm guaranteed
to win now when I roll the one in three
out of the six cases I'm only going to
beat you in the two out of six cases
that you roll a zero as well so in
summary I'm going to win three six times
one when I roll a five plus three six
when I roll a zero when I roll the one
times 2 6 when you roll a 0 so this nets
out to 2/3 of the time I'm going to win
so once again your die that you pick is
going to lose to my die two-thirds of
the time this argument continues let's
suppose you pick the die that I just had
well in that case I'm going to pick the
next die which has two on four of its
faces and six on two of his faces we can
do a similar calculation I'm going to
win two out of the six times when I roll
a six guaranteed and I'm also going to
win if I roll a two which is four six of
the time against your one which happens
three six of the time so once again I'm
going to beat your die two-thirds of the
time finally you say all right I'll pick
the die you just had and then I'm going
to go ahead and say well I'm going to
pick the diet that has all threes now
I'm going to win whenever I roll
whenever you roll a two which happens
for six of the time so once again your
dies losing to my die two-thirds of the
time so what we've shown is that each
die is actually going to lose two thirds
of the time to another die and this is
what's known as non transitive dice each
die can be beaten like another like a
game of rock-paper-scissors this is a
cyclical game and that's why it's
non-transitive the first person who
selects the die is always going to be at
a disadvantage to someone who picks this
second because each die can be beaten by
another as the story goes Warren Buffett
challenged Bill Gates to this and said
go ahead why don't you select first Bill
Gates was smart enough to say let me
inspect the dice and he figured out that
there was something weird going on with
the dice did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe
to my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch around my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media app pressure
saw Walker and if you like this video
please check out my books there are
links in the video description